Thoynk.AI is about radically collaborative AI ... obviously, security would be fundamentally important for any serious application involving internetworked devices.

Perfect security is not ever going to be achievable in collaborative digital work ... if only because it will depend upon perfect physical security of the devices on the nodes. This has long been recognized; almost certainly was recognized theoretically before any two devices were internetworked ... and yet, there are plenty who want to ignore what is obvious and imagine that things like cryptography can provide unbreakably strong, near perfect security ... which is the kind of ignorant over-promising among self-described security experts which may be the biggest driver of problems with security. You cannot buy trust ... you can rent something that looks and feels a lot like trust ... but humility about what is achievable and what is not critically important for achieving a semblance of security, for assuring that your rented environment of trust as secure as it possibly can be.

Consider the case of "unbreakable" cryptography like the [Curve25519](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Curve25519) elliptic curve used in [CurveZMQ](http://curvezmq.org/page:read-the-docs#toc3) ... the CurveZMQ protocol establishes short-term session keys for every connection to achieve **what is NOW claimed to be** *perfect forward security*. Session keys are held in memory and destroyed when the connection is closed. CurveZMQ also addresses replay attacks, amplification attacks, MIM attacks, key thefts, client identification, and various denial-of-service attacks.

Of course, the NSA clearly knows better, even if it cannot yet break Curve25519 or any of the other "curves" which don't rely upon constants. If the NSA doesn't already have the capability -- it will and, more importantly, it knows that others will. Consequently, it's no secret whatsoever that the [NSA plans for a world of post-quantum computing world](https://www.schneier.com/blog/archives/2015/08/nsa_plans_for_a.html) where all crypto is breakable and something like *perfect forward security* would not be so perfect. The Army understands why [security cannot depends solely on algrorithms, but must depend upon the training, readiness and awareness of its people](https://fas.org/irp/doddir/army/tp525-8-6.pdf).

But that does not mean, that CurveZMQ is not still the best available option for its two main use cases:

*  To secure a single hop between client and server, which is the CurveCP use case. For this use case we would embed CurveZMQ in the transport layer so that it can work for all patterns (publish-subscribe, pipeline, and so on).

*  To secure a client and server end-to-end across one or more untrusted peers, where transport-layer security is not sufficient. For this use case we would build CurveZMQ into our application-layer protocols using an asynchronous request-reply pattern.
